---
permalink: /artist-statement/
title: ""
excerpt: ""
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /
  - /about
  - /about-me
  - /about_me
---
As a props designer, I believe that the objects on stage can be just as powerful as the actors themselves. Props have the ability to transport audiences to different worlds and eras, to enhance the storytelling, and to provide insight into the characters. In my work, I strive to balance aesthetics with practicality, always keeping in mind the needs of the actors and the production team. I believe props that don't just look great on stage but also function realistically, when practical, increases the immersion experienced by audiences and especially actors. I approach prop design as a collaborative process with the director, actors, and other designers. Together, we work to create a cohesive world that supports the narrative and enhances the performance. I believe that the props should not only look authentic and visually interesting, but should also function as intended and be safe for the performers to use. My creative process involves thorough research into the time period, setting, and themes of the production. I seek inspiration from historical references to create unique and compelling props that support the world of the play. Collaboration is a major part of my creative process in prop design. This means that I am consistently seeking input and feedback from the director, actors, and other designers. By working collaboratively, we are able to ensure that the props do not only look great, but also serve the needs of the story and the actors. In order to create a cohesive world, I believe it is essential to consider every aspect of the production design, which includes taking into account the set, lighting, and costume design to ensure props exist in the design language as the rest of the production. Safety is also a top priority in prop design as in every aspect of stage design. I believe that props should be designed with safety of the performers in mind especially when moving parts or mechanisms are involved. These should be tested to ensure they are safe from pinching and reliably function. Thorough research is an essential part of my creative process. In order to create props that are authentic to the time period and setting of the production, I spend a significant amount of time researching historical references. This research helps me to understand the context in which the production is set, and provides inspiration for unique and compelling prop designs. For example, as prop master for Little Women, I learned and researched the many types and sizes of paper which in that era had many specific uses in order to use paper that was the right size for specific moments. While many in the audience will never know or directly appreciate the research and work that was done for simple paper props, these seemingly insignificant details truly create the world in my eyes. In summary, my approach to prop design is one that values collaboration, safety, and authenticity. By working closely with the director, actors, and other designers, and by conducting thorough research, I am able to create props that not only enhance the production visually, but also support the narrative and contribute to the overall success of the production.
